Added info about Intel mac compatibility, minor corrections (#7)
discentem/blog-content: content/posts/macvdmtool.md

date: 2021-11-04
draft: false
---

> (updated 2024-01-31, new info about Intel macs)

Reviewer: Does Hugo render this in the HTML? I want to make sure it's hidden in the actual blog post but I like the idea of a changelog ✅ But perhaps a changelog isn't necessary as we have Git history. Let me know what you think

Author: I am not sure, best to remove it i think

# What is [macvdmtool](https://github.com/AsahiLinux/macvdmtool)?

> It is a tool written by [marcan](https://github.com/marcan) under the [AsahiLinux project](https://asahilinux.org/). macvdmtool lets you put any Apple Silicon or Intel Macs with the T2 chip (2018 and forward) in DFU mode with terminal commands instead of requiring awkward keyboard gymnastics.

Reviewer: Thanks! This is good clarification

> > **Note**: macvdmtool requires that the **host machine** is **Apple Silicon** based, Intel macs do not seem to support this tool as a host.

Reviewer: 👍

# Setting up and using macvdmtool

> 1. Install [Xcode](https://developer.apple.com/xcode/) and the [Xcode commandline tools](https://mac.install.guide/commandlinetools/).

Reviewer: Is there a more official link we can use for Xcode Commandline tools? Or just suggest the terminal command to install them?

Author: I am not sure, i have only found this: https://forums.developer.apple.com/forums/thread/677124

Reviewer: I'd prefer to just provide the terminal commands directly instead of linking here

Author: Added terminal commands

    Entering DBMa mode... Status: DBMa
    Rebooting target into DFU mode... OK
    Exiting DBMa mode... OK
    ```

> ## Restoring/reviving

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Restoring/reviving with cfgutil
```

> As well as using Apple Configurator 2 or in [latest Sonoma update, Finder](https://www.macrumors.com/2023/08/15/macos-sonoma-dfu-mode/) to restore/revive your Mac, you can also do it manually with cfgutil (only works if the target is an Apple Silicon model)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Alternatively you can use Apple Configurator 2 or [Finder](https://www.macrumors.com/2023/08/15/macos-sonoma-dfu-mode/) to restore/revive your Mac. 

> **Note**: This method with `cfgutil` only works if the target Mac is Apple Silicon.
```

Reviewer: I just used macvdmtool again today for the first time in like ~1 year and... wow the new Finder stuff for restoring is awesome. I'm thinking to update the blog post to include it. Or to re-write the blog post to skip all the CLI stuff.

    Entering DBMa mode... Status: DBMa
    Rebooting target into DFU mode... OK
    Exiting DBMa mode... OK
    ```

1. Confirm the device is in DFU mode by launching Apple Configurator 2. It should look like this.
   (If it does not appear, try unplugging and plugging back in the cable between the host and target)

    ![Apple Configurator 2 is now showing target device in DFU](/images/macvdmtool/apple_configurator/dfu.png)

> ### For easier use of the DFU command you can add it as an alias

Reviewer: My initial thought on this is that it's sort of out of scope for this article. I don't want to encourage users to hide too much from themselves, `sudo macvdmtool dfu` seems simple enough to me.

Author: Move down the section to the bottom or remove entirely?

1. Find the configuration file for your terminal, usually [.zshrc or .bash_profile](https://presscargo.io/articles/how-to-add-an-alias-in-macos-with-terminal/) located in your users folder)
2. Edit it with a file editor of your choice and add `alias dfu="sudo macvdmtool dfu"` to a new line at the bottom of the file, save and quit
3. Run `source ~/.zshrc` or `source ~/.bash_profile` to activate the edited file
4. Now you can run `dfu` in terminal instead of `sudo macvdmtool dfu`
5. Apply this to the other commands available through `macvdmtool` if you'd like, being aware of `reboot` already being a native macOS command.

> ## Optional when restoring/reviving

Reviewer: I'm a bit confused by this new heading 🤔 What about this is optional? I don't think there is a scenario where someone would put the device in DFU and then not do a restore.

Author: Hmm, i suppose i was thinking that the optional part is restoring the device using manual download of IPSW, just worded it entirely wrong
